Um,why exactly does all this matter?
So.
It's not immediately clear.
No.
So typically the function is defined the
global environment so that
values of the free variables are just
found in the user's workspace.
So this is kind of the.
The right thing to do is kind of what most
people are expecting.
If there's no, if, if there's, you can't
find a value
inside the function itself, you just look
in the global environment.
So this is the, the idea here is that you
can define things like
global variables, that will be common to a
lot of different functions.
That you might be defining in your
workspace.
so, but the key difference in R is
that you can define functions inside of
other functions.
'n so for example a function can return a
function as the return value.
So, in most functions they'll return a
list, or a vector, or a matrix, or
a data frame or something like that, but
it is possible for a, for a function
to return another function and then that,
if that's
the case then the, then the function that
gets returned.
It was defined inside of another function.
So, it's an, the environment in which it
was defined Is not the global environment.
It's really the, the, the insides of this
other function.
So this is when things get interesting and
this is when
the scoping rules really have an impact on
what you can do.
So, I am going to define a very simple
function here and often
these kinds of functions come [UNKNOWN]
where you might think of constructive
functions.
So, the idea that the function is
constructing another function.
So, here's what I want to, I want to
create a function that that defines
another, called make.power.
And what make.power takes as input is a
number n.
Okay?
So, and inside the make.power function I
define
another function called pow.
And pow is going to take an argument
called x.
And and so what's going to happen is that
the power function is going to take the,
then the,
take the argument X and raise to their
power N, okay, and so make that power
returns,
with a function power as its return value
and so you see inside the power function X
is a, X is a function argument but that's
not a problem, but n is a free variable
because its not defined inside the power.
Function.
However, N is defined inside the
make.power function and so
since that's the environment in which the
pow is defined.
It will find the value of N.
The pow, the power function will find the
value of n inside this, it's other
environment.
So what happens is that I can call
make.power and pass it a number like 3.
And then, it will return a function, which
I'll sign to
be called cube.
And, similarly, I can pass 2 to make that
power and create a function that I'll call
square.
So, now, when I, when I pass cube, the
number 3 What is
it does is it raises 3 to the 3rd power,
so I get 27.
If I call square on the number 3, it, it
raises three to the 2nd power, so it gives
me 9.
And so, so, so now, I've cons, I've
got one function that can, that's capable
of constructing
many different types of functions, and by
raising to pow, to various powers.
So, how do you know what's in a function's
environment?
So you can, you can at the function, so,
excuse me.
You can look in the environment in which
the function was defined, by calling the
LS function.
So if I call, if I call LS on On the
environment for cube.
You can see that inside the cube function,
there's,
there's something, there's an, there's an
object called N.
And if I use get on N you'll see that the
value of N is equal to 3.
So that's how the power function knows to
raise
it to the 3rd, to the 3rd power.
Excuse me, that's how the cube function
knows how to, knows
to raise the argument to the 3rd power
because it's already defined.
In it's, in it's, in it's, closure
environment.
Similarly the environment for square, you
can see
it has the exact same objects in it.
But now the value of n is equal to 2, in
the square function.
So, so, I want to make one brief
comparison between lexical scoping, which
is what R
does, and dynamic scoping, which is what
maybe
some other function, some other programing
languages implement.
So here I've got, I'm assigning the value
of Y equal to 10.
Then create a function F, which takes, as
an argument, X.
And then, it assigns, there it assigns Y
equal to 2, it squares Y and then adds G
of X.
So, what's G?
G is another function, which takes as an
argument called X, and it multiplies X
times Y.
So, in the F function, Y is a free
variable, and G is also a free variable.
So, the G function is not defined.
Inside of F of or, it's, it, of, argument
to F.
Then in the G function, then the var-, the
symbol Y is a free variable.
And so the question
is if I call f of 3 what gets returned?
So with lexical scoping, the value of Y
and the function G
is looked up in the environment in which
the function was defined.
Which in this case was the global
environment.
So that the value of Y and the G function
is 10.
So with dynamic scoping the value of Y is
looked up in
the environment from which the function
was called; sometimes called the calling
environment.
So in the R the calling environment is
known as is what's called the parent
frame.
In this case the calling environment Y was
defined to
be 2 and so the value of Y would be 2.
So.
Calling the function F would produce
different answers depending
on whether you use lexical scoping or
dynamic scoping.
So, the one thing that, that, that will
make lexical scoping and dynamic scoping
look the
same is that when a function is defined
in the global environment and is
subsequently called
from the global environment, then the
defining environment
and the calling environment are exactly
the same
and so this can sometimes give the
appearance
of dynamic scoping even when It doesn't
exist.
So here I've got a function called G.
It takes an argument X.
It assigns A to be equal to 3.
And then it adds X plus A plus Y.
So, in this case, X is a function is a
formal argument.
A is a local variable so it's not a
formal argument, but I defined it inside
the function.
Then so, that's okay.
And then Y is a free variable, okay?
So if I call G of 2, the function G is
going to look for the value of Y in the
global environment.
If I haven't yet defined Y then there has
to be an error because it doesn't know
what
value to assign to the symbol of Y.
So that's what I get in this line here.
Now if I define what Y is, say I assign it
to be 3, if I call it
G of 2, then it returns 8 because now it's
able to find Y in the global environment.
So even though it looks like the value of
Y was looked up in the calling
environment, it's actually the defining
environment because G
happened to be defined in the global
environment
so, there are a number of other languages
that support lexical scoping.
Some examples are things like Scheme,
Perl, Python, and Common Lisp.
And of course there's a, a well known
computer science
theorem which is that all languages
eventually converge to Lisp.
And so it's, it's not a, it's not an
obscure type of feature.
It's actually very common in a number of
other programming languages.
So, one of the main consequences of
lexical scoping in R
is that all the objects have to be stored
in memory.
So, if you're working with a programming
language that has
very small objects this generally speaking
not a big problem.
but.
Because of nature of the scoping rules and
because of the complexity of the
environment and the,
the way they are all linked together, it's
difficult
to implement this type of model outside of
physical
memory, and so.
So the consequence was that, when R was
originally designed.
Everything was stored in memory.
Things are getting complicated now,
because of very large types of data sets.
And, being able to read them into R.
It is a challenge.
Everything has to be stored in memory.
Second now, so every function has a
carrier
pointer to its respect, to its defining
environment.
and, and that defining environment could
literally be anywhere
because there could be functions within
functions and then the,
and if you do, if one function returns
another function,
then there has, there has to be a pointer
to
that piece of memory where the defining
environment is stored.
And so this makes the model a little bit
more complex but but, but all the more
useful.
So, the, in S plus, which was kind of the
original implementation of the S language,
the free variable were always looked up in
the workspace.
Everything could be stored on the disk,
because the
defining environment of all the functions
was the same.